# Executive Summary
Driven by one of the most talked about topics on Reddit and other social media sites in early 2021, investors flocked behind various stocks including GameStop and AMC. Thanks to the individual investors on commission free trading platforms (i.e. Robinhood), Gamestop (GME)’s share price quickly grew in multiples. In January 2021 alone, its stock price mounted by more than 1500%. 
This analysis aims to identify the conversations behind this phenomenon. Who and what is driving this event? How is it accomplished? Our goal is to run a time series analysis (with sentiment analysis) with trading volume of GME stock and comments/posts on the Reddit group largely attributed to this phenomenon: WallStreetBets of Reddit. We also want to perform a network analysis within the Reddit community, specifically the SubReddit - WallStreetBets to discuss the unusual user activities (immense posting/commenting) during these times. Through this project, we hope to find patterns or signals that will help indicate the next breakout opportunity.

# Project Design
Our assumption is that there is a positive correlation between trade volume and the number of comments (content-related) on the WallStreetBets subreddit thread. When more Reddit users engage in GME stock conversations, it is likely that people in the stock market are buying stocks “on the rise”. It is also believed that their sentiment (positive, neutral, negative) is related to the trading volume. Accordingly, we designed the project based on the following structure. 
First, we performed a time series analysis to compare GME’s stock trading volume and the number of comments. This period is broken down into 5 stages based on when there is a significant change on trading volume of GME stock in the market, which are before event (10/13/20-1/13/21), first wave increase (1/13/21-2/27/21), decrease (1/27/21-1/28/21), second wave increase (1/28/21-1/29/21), and post event (1/29/21 till now). 
Second, we measured the scores for each sentiment component “pos”, “neu”, and “neg” (“positive”,”neutral”, and “negative”, respectively) and its compound scores within every individual text comment through sentiment analysis. NLTK package in Python was used to analyze whether the comment in plain English contains positive or negative emotions. It assigned each comment to a label as “POS”, “NEU”, or “NEG” based on its compound score. Scores less than 0 would be assigned to “NEG”, equals to 0 would be “NEU”, and greater than 0 would be “POS”. 	
Last, we generated 5 Word Clouds based on 5 different stages. Without breaking up the corpus based on different trading price stages, there was little information relevant to our analysis. After breaking up and evaluating conversations by sentiment, we saw there were terms specific to each sentiment group. 
In addition, we conducted a network analysis to see if there are key opinion leaders or influencers that played a key role spreading words and gathering public opinions by drawing a network graph between users and connections (a post followed by a comment). We ranked the most influential users by total number of connections. Then, we compared these users with the most upvoted posts/comments in subreddit to see if there is a relationship. Are users who have more connections necessarily true influencers that shake one’s faith?

# Data Acquisition/Preprocessing
To prepare for the data preprocessing part of our project, we want to get information from the thread r/wallstreetbets from Reddit using Python. In order to get access to the Reddit API, we first need to create an application within Reddit. We selected the “script” option and put “http://localhost:8080” in the redirect url field on the application for the purpose of this project. After our application was successfully created, it gave us a 14-character personal-use-script and a 27-character secret-key which would be used later to connect to the API and download data.
We mainly used the Python package PRAW, which stands for Python Reddit API Wrapper, to scrape and process data. We were interested in investigating the authors, the content within their posts, their comments, and the timing of those activities (e.g., before GameStop (known as GME) trading volume spikes and after the first wave). Some key variables we think would be valuable for our analysis are “post title”, “post author”, “post id”, and some other information for the most upvoted posts of a given period of time we pre-select. The most upvoted means it gets the most likes or is agreed by most users. We also obtained “comment text”, “comment author”, “time stamp” (when they post/comment), and “linked id” which is the associated id authors use for their posts and comments as we want to take a look at the specific content users engaged with as well as their connections. Note that we only selected the top-level comments (most upvotes) as comment forest or comment under comment requires a more powerful computer and processing power. Thus unfortunately, we would not be using these comments due to time constraints.
Once finished selecting variables needed for further analysis, we started our cleaning process by dropping the missing values. We noticed that some posts or comments have been removed or deleted by either the Reddit forum or author themselves. They are generally marked as [removed] or [deleted]. As a result, we dropped these records of posts/comments and their authors (marked as [NaN] when removed) by removing the entire row accordingly. At the end, it left us with 114,609 rows and 4 columns with variables “Comment”, “Author”, “Timestamp”, “LinkedPostID” in the final dataset. 

# Business Implications
When there are significant fluctuations in trading volume of GME stock, r/wallstreetbets users are likely to engage in the conversation more fiercely. The buying behavior of stocks and level of participation or engagement appear to have interactive influences on each other. At the same time, major influencers – which does not need many – are able to create a tremendous impact in the Reddit community. These influential users can theoretically help identify key stocks. Once more and more people join the team, the impact starts to show. Sentiment plays a role in positively influencing trading volume.
The analyses gave us a fair good result, however, there is more that can be improved. Looking retrospectively, a more advanced analysis tool to analyze users’ words - not only in plain English but also in emojis/facial expressions in special characters - is definitely needed for deeper understanding of people’s sentiments. Likewise, curse words (i.e. F word) could have double meanings. We want to better distinguish between the explicit and implicit meanings. 
In conclusion, government agencies may utilize the forum to take a closer look at these KPIs and monitor the stock market environment in a more holistic view. People now can make wild predictions that small businesses/organizations and individual buyers can cause potential, substantial impact on a single stock after this unprecedented event. Until the NEXT Wave, who will be leading the conversation in r/wallstreetbets? Financial services companies like Robinhood may utilize the forum to prepare for technology issues due to rapid transaction increase. Individual buyers may want to follow the early birds (influencers) much closer and earlier to gain more in the game next time, if there is one.  

# Next Steps
Moving on, we have also considered some possible methods to improve and work on the perfection of the analyses in the future. Some aspects to consider to better understand this phenomenon include analyzing top user’s networks and their influences. Given the reach the top ten active users achieved, it is worth looking into how different types of users influenced trading volume. Unlike the top most active user (opinionisoverrated), the second top influencer (DeepF***Value) achieved a considerably strong network without actually commenting on others’ posts. This begs the question: what is the marginal increase in activity between using one and both activity streams? Answering this question will help us fine-tune and identify key influencers who can generate the most activity for various stocks primed for ‘breakout’.
It would have been useful to understand the correlation and the magnitude each type of activity had on trading volume. Given additional time, we would have wanted to run a correlation between each feature and also against trading volume. A multivariate regression would have also indicated the statistical significance of each feature. Identifying and quantifying these relationships would have allowed us to better prioritize our feature engineering. Given there is sufficient statistical significance, our next analysis may not require so many features. Given an insufficient relationship, we would know to engineer our features differently or bring in additional features.
Finally, we want to look at different stocks within r/wallstreetbets and in other communities (e.g., Twitter, Facebook). If after analyzing their feature’s tendency and it displays highly correlated tendencies with GME as well, this could indicate on which platform the stock(s) being discussed might be best situated for increased trading volume.


# More details
https://drive.google.com/file/d/12Kke5hL5cUA18DXx6Gq5ARYKd5DcsM4g/view?usp=sharing
